README.md, before:

# PlusPlusBattery - Battery Info Viewer for OPlus Devices

[简体中文](./README.zh.md) | English

## Introduction

`PlusPlusBattery` is a lightweight battery info and health estimation tool specifically tailored for OnePlus/Oppo/Realme devices. It provides real-time monitoring of battery status and can evaluate the Full Charge Capacity (FCC) and the uncompensated raw FCC and State of Health (SOH) of silicon-carbon anode batteries under specific conditions.

## Features

- **Real-time Battery Info**: Displays current battery level, voltage, current, charge/discharge power, and health status without root access.
- **Battery Health Estimation**: Calculates and records Full Charge Capacity only when the battery level is 100% and the battery current is within the range from 0 to 20 mA. This is used to estimate battery health and lifespan. Not a true value, just an estimation.
- **Cycle Count History**: Records the daily cycle count when the app is opened and saves it locally using a Room database. Users can view this on the history page.
- **Real-Time Battery Monitor Notification**: Posts an ongoing notification showing battery metrics. Info entries can be customized.
- **Root Mode**: Requires root permission to read additional information.
- **Current Remaining Capacity**: Read from `/sys/class/oplus_chg/battery/battery_rm`. This value changes with battery level.
- **Full Charge Capacity (battery_fcc) (Root Mode)**: Read from `/sys/class/oplus_chg/battery/battery_fcc`. This value fluctuates based on charging/discharging behavior.
- **Raw Full Charge Capacity (Root Mode)**: Reverse-calculated uncompensated FCC. Silicon-carbon anode batteries typically apply algorithmic compensation based on undervoltage thresholds.
- **Battery Health (battery_soh) (Root Mode)**: Read from `/sys/class/oplus_chg/battery/battery_soh`. This value fluctuates with usage.
- **Raw Battery Health (Root Mode)**: Reverse-calculated uncompensated SOH. Compensation is usually applied in silicon-carbon batteries based on undervoltage thresholds.
- **Battery Under-voltage Threshold (vbat_uv) (Root Mode)**: Read from `/sys/class/oplus_chg/battery/vbat_uv`. The device will shut down if the voltage drops below this threshold.
- **Battery Serial Number (battery_sn) (Root Mode)**: Read from `/sys/class/oplus_chg/battery/battery_sn`.
- **Battery Manufacture Date (battery_manu_date) (Root Mode)**: Read from `/sys/class/oplus_chg/battery/battery_manu_date`.
- **Qmax (batt_qmax) (Root Mode)**: Qmax refers to the chemical capacity of the battery. The value of this capacity is load independent. This is the capacity that can be released by a battery under very low load current, usually expressed in mAh. In the system, this value changes triggered by some conditions.

## Downloads

[<img src="https://f-droid.org/badge/get-it-on.png"
    alt="Get it on F-Droid"
    height="80">](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/com.dijia1124.plusplusbattery/)

Or download the APK from [Github Release](https://github.com/dijia1124/PlusPlusBattery/releases)

## Installation

1. Ensure your OnePlus device is running a recent version of ColorOS or OxygenOS (e.g., ColorOS 15), or a relatively new AOSP-based ROM.
2. Go to the Release page to download and install the APK.
3. Launch the app.
4. (Optional) Grant root access.
5. (Optional) For battery monitor notification: battery optimization in system settings for PlusPlusBattery needs to be off. Additionally, for ColorOS 15 users, enabling "Auto-launch" permission in system settings for PlusPlusBattery is also needed to make the monitor service resume/pause depending on screen-on/off properly.

## Credits

Special thanks to [@shminer](https://github.com/shminer) for providing source code, algorithm logic, and insights related to FCC & SOH compensation.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. Please refer to the `LICENSE` file for details.

Commit message:

chore: adjust readme files and texts

README.md, after:

# PlusPlusBattery - Battery Info Viewer for OPlus Devices

[简体中文](./README.zh.md) | English

## Introduction

`PlusPlusBattery` is a lightweight battery info and health estimation tool specifically tailored for OnePlus/Oppo/Realme devices (with universal device support). It provides real-time monitoring of battery status and can evaluate the Full Charge Capacity (FCC) and the uncompensated raw FCC and State of Health (SOH) of silicon-carbon anode batteries under specific conditions.

## Features

- **Real-time Battery Info**: Displays current battery level, voltage, current, charge/discharge power, and health status without root access.
- **Battery Health Estimation**: Calculates and records Full Charge Capacity only when the battery level is 100% and the battery current is within the range from 0 to 20 mA. This is used to estimate battery health and lifespan. Not a true value, just an estimation.
- **Cycle Count History**: Records the daily cycle count when the app is opened and saves it locally using a Room database. Users can view this on the history page.
- **Real-Time Battery Monitor Notification**: Posts an ongoing notification showing battery metrics. Info entries can be customized.
- **Root Mode**: Requires root permission to read additional information.
- **Current Remaining Capacity**: Read from `/sys/class/oplus_chg/battery/battery_rm`. This value changes with battery level.
- **Full Charge Capacity (battery_fcc) (Root Mode)**: Read from `/sys/class/oplus_chg/battery/battery_fcc`. This value fluctuates based on charging/discharging behavior.
- **Raw Full Charge Capacity (Root Mode)**: Reverse-calculated uncompensated FCC. Silicon-carbon anode batteries typically apply algorithmic compensation based on undervoltage thresholds.
- **Battery Health (battery_soh) (Root Mode)**: Read from `/sys/class/oplus_chg/battery/battery_soh`. This value fluctuates with usage.
- **Raw Battery Health (Root Mode)**: Reverse-calculated uncompensated SOH. Compensation is usually applied in silicon-carbon batteries based on undervoltage thresholds.
- **Battery Under-voltage Threshold (vbat_uv) (Root Mode)**: Read from `/sys/class/oplus_chg/battery/vbat_uv`. The device will shut down if the voltage drops below this threshold.
- **Battery Serial Number (battery_sn) (Root Mode)**: Read from `/sys/class/oplus_chg/battery/battery_sn`.
- **Battery Manufacture Date (battery_manu_date) (Root Mode)**: Read from `/sys/class/oplus_chg/battery/battery_manu_date`.
- **Qmax (batt_qmax) (Root Mode)**: Qmax refers to the chemical capacity of the battery. The value of this capacity is load independent. This is the capacity that can be released by a battery under very low load current, usually expressed in mAh. In the system, this value changes triggered by some conditions.
- **Custom Entries (Root Mode)**: Customizable entries for universal devices, with default presets displaying charge cycles & fccs from generic linux power_supply files. You can also add any other readable path as you like. Users can also export/import custom profiles.

## Experimental Features
- **Get Battery Data from Logcat (Root Mode)**: For some devices, this app can extract battery related data from logcat. Currently supported devices include some OPlus, Moto and Xiaomi devices (depends on models and systems)

## Downloads

[<img src="https://f-droid.org/badge/get-it-on.png"
    alt="Get it on F-Droid"
    height="80">](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/com.dijia1124.plusplusbattery/)

Or download the APK from [Github Release](https://github.com/dijia1124/PlusPlusBattery/releases)

## Installation

1. Ensure your OnePlus device is running a recent version of ColorOS or OxygenOS (e.g., ColorOS 15), or a relatively new AOSP-based ROM.
2. Go to the Release page to download and install the APK.
3. Launch the app.
4. (Optional) Grant root access.
5. (Optional) For battery monitor notification: battery optimization in system settings for PlusPlusBattery needs to be off. Additionally, for ColorOS 15 users, enabling "Auto-launch" permission in system settings for PlusPlusBattery is also needed to make the monitor service resume/pause depending on screen-on/off properly.
6. (Optional) For non-Oppo/OnePlus/Realme devices, you may want to disable the option 'Show OPlus exclusive entries' to hide those useless data under root mode.

## Note

On some recent ColorOS versions (such as 15.0.0.840 for OnePlus 13), the monitor service might not be able to work properly due to the strict battery optimization policy. In this case you may want to play around with the file /data/oplus/os/bpm/sys_elsa_config_list.xml

## Credits

Special thanks to [@shminer](https://github.com/shminer) for providing source code, algorithm logic, and insights related to FCC & SOH compensation.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. Please refer to the `LICENSE` file for details.
